# 5.2.1.2 Ensure auditing for processes that start prior to auditd is enabled (Automated)

## Remediation

Run the following command to update the grub2 configuration with audit=1:
# grubby --update-kernel ALL --args 'audit=1'
Edit /etc/default/grub and add audit=1 to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX= line between the
opening and closing double quotes:
Example:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="quiet audit=1"
Note: Other parameters may also be listed
Additional Information:
This recommendation is designed around the grub 2 bootloader, if another bootloader is
in use in your environment enact equivalent settings.
grubby is a command line tool used to configure bootloader menu entries across
multiple architectures. It is used for updating and displaying information about the
configuration files for various architecture specific bootloaders.
It is primarily designed to be used from scripts which install new kernels and need to
find information about the current boot environment.
The grubby executable has full support for the grub2 bootloader on x86_64 systems
using legacy BIOS or modern UEFI firmware and ppc64 and ppc64le hardware using
OPAL or SLOF as firmware.
Legacy s390 and the current s390x architectures and their zipl bootloader are fully
supported.
Support for yaboot has been deprecated as all ppc architecture hardware since the
Power8 uses grub2 or petitboot which both use the grub2 configuration file format.
Legacy bootloaders LILO, SILO, and ELILO are deprecated and no longer receiving
active support in favor of previously mentioned bootloaders.
The default bootloader target is primarily determined by the architecture for which
grubby has been built. Each architecture has a preferred bootloader, and each
bootloader has its own configuration file. If no bootloader is selected on the command
line, grubby will use these default settings to search for an existing configuration. If no
bootloader configuration file is found, grubby will use the default value for that
architecture.
